
More Work ! Yay !
==================

:date: 2016-05-11

Met with my advisor this morning. He gave me correct parameter for the PIDs. The new controllers give the system the right response time. Unfortunately this broke something else. The VRFT PIDs are waaaaaay out of whack !

Objectives today: 

- Fix the code so that the VRFT controllers look good again. 

Objectives for the next days:

- Improve the inner reference model to increase the bandwidth (go as high as possible)
- Add the time delay into the mix and see what it changes 
- Consider a disturbance on the torque (dM) and see how it effects the system
  
  The procedure to determine the amplitude of the disturbance is: 

  #. Pass a +10% pitch angle step to the system and measure the max torque
  #. Create a set of double steps with that amplitude lasting 1 to 10 seconds and look at the response of the system. 
  
As a first step for today I'm going to split the ``quad-copter.mlx`` file into smaller files. 


What I did: 

- I cleaned up ``quad_copter_model.mlx`` to remove all the deprecated comments and stuff. 
- I cleaned up ``quad_copter_vrft.ml`` to better describe what is going on and expose the VRFT parameters better.
  
  I still don't know why the controller is soooo far off. However it looks like I can replace the reference models with 1st order systems to make adjusting them really easy.

- I spent the rest of the afternoon fixing miscellaneous bugs in mlx_formatter and improving the output.
  
Here are the mlx files:

- `Quad Copter Model <{filename}static/05-11/quad_copter_model_mlx.html>`_
- `Quad Copter VRFT <{filename}static/05-11/quad_copter_vrft_mlx.html>`_
